[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What makes people
truly fulfilled?
Is it love, family,
success, or is it
finding out who you really are,
what you are truly made of,
so you know your purpose here
on Earth and your connection
to the universe?
We exist as physical beings
in a physical reality,
while our mind is in
constant communication
with unseen forces
and unknown worlds.
We are the visible part
of a potentially infinite
invisible realm.
How do the two worlds, mind
and matter, coexist, collide,
and interact?
We know our intent, our
thoughts, our emotions
affect how we feel, but have
you considered that what you say
may also have a direct
and measurable influence
on your body?
A relatively new field
of medical science
analyzes your vocal imprint to
identify toxins and pathogens
in the blood and help
diagnose many illnesses.
Don Estes has developed
a new approach
to this vocal technology
that demonstrates
not only the frequency
imprint, but the patterns that
are present in your voice.
Karina Smirnoff's world is
all about music and sound.
She's a world renowned
professional dancer
and choreographer.
She was particularly
intrigued by the impact
sound vibrations
can have on her body
and her overall well-being.
>> Well, I've always been busy
working and creating my career.
And I always wanted kids.
There was never a point in my
life that I didn't want kids,
but it's also difficult,
because if I have a child, then
I have to take time out of
my work and out of my career.
>> We're going to
introduce you to my friend.
>> OK.
>> And then we'll
see what happens.
>> I'm just going to
let you discover it.
You'll see what I mean.
>> OK.
>> Hello.
How are you, my dear?
>> Karina, why don't you
tell us about your life?
>> Well, my schedule
is really, really busy.
I travel the world
internationally, constantly.
I do 14 to 16-hour
days I always feel
like there is never enough time
to do everything that I want.
>> So what you're actually
going to be doing today is
you're going to be doing a new
technology called the Portacle,
which you express yourself into.
So we take the voice in.
We analyze that, and at the same
time that that's happening, now
I'm plotting this
pattern on the screen.
Most people use this technology
as an intention machine,
an intention
manifestation machine.
I want to speak my
intentions into it,
and I want that to come true.
So we'll have you put that on
and flip it around that way.
Perfect.
>> Can you talk about
something that's really,
really bothering you right now?
>> At this point, the only thing
I'm missing is having my own
kids, having a family.
I feel like I'm running out
of time to have a child, where
my parents can also get
to enjoy their grandchild,
where I'm not a mom
who gets to pick up
her child from kindergarten,
and they start thinking,
is that your grandma?
>> OK, so Don can show you how
these are real patterns that
are inside yourself.
>> Yeah, well, the first thing I
notice about this is all of her
outward radiance has
kind of gone away.
We see more, again,
of these oval shapes
that are vertical ovals, which
means there's a lot of focus
on the potential, more
so than the imaginary.
So on this horizontal
plane, you've
got a lot of energy
tied around time.
>> So Karina, when you look at
this pattern, how do you feel?
>> It's busy without structure.
>> Chaos.
>> Maybe.
>> So why don't you switch
to something you really,
really love, something that's
working in your life that you
want more of?
>> I do what I love.
I get to travel the world.
I love traveling.
I get to experience different
countries, cultures,
so I love that, and I
enjoy that tremendously.
And I'm also doing a lot
of things with the kids.
I have a big kids program
that is taking off really,
really fast.
This is like having
a dream come true.
In terms of work and
where it's going,
I couldn't be more
grateful and happier.
>> Great.
All right.
>> So now we see a lot of
harmony going on in there.
We've got a lot of circles
outside of the center there.
That really brings your energy
out into the environment.
And it's going to have a
tremendous effect on people.
>> Well, it's a responsibility
to self as well as to other
people to be able to stay
in the right state of mind,
to stay positive.
>> What's your favorite color?
>> I've always loved yellow,
because I find that, like,
it's happy.
It's a ray of sunlight.
It's warm.
It's life-bringing.
It's yellow.
Like, yellow is happy.
>> Great.
>> All right.
>> And tell us about your
least favorite color.
>> My least favorite
is dark burgundy,
like that dull and not even
dark, like dull burgundy.
I find it stale
and flat and old.
>> This is interesting.
When she was saying
yellow, I saw yellow.
>> You saw more yellow here.
>> And then when she
was saying burgundy,
there was more burgundy.
>> So if I want to feel happy,
I should wear my yellow.
>> She doesn't even
have to wear yellow.
She could say or think yellow.
>> That's true.
That's what we were talking
about earlier is what
you say is what reality is.
And that's the hardest thing
for people to really get.
>> Well, thank you very much.
This was incredible.
It was very eye-opening.
I learned a lot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I believe the experience
today not only enhanced,
but it kind of proved that
we create our reality.
So if there is
something that we want,
we need to project it out there.
We need to manifest it.
We need to at least
give ourselves
the platform to create it.
There is something
more to a human
being other than just
the physical being.
>> It's kind of
like a fingerprint.
It's like each one of us has
an individual everything.
We have an individual
fingerprint.
We have a voice print.
We have brain frequencies
and heartbeats.
Your heart shows how you're
feeling about things.
Your brain shows how you're
thinking about things.
But your voice does
that immediately.
When you say it into the
real world, you make it real.
And if you say it enough,
it will become real.
Reality actually starts
on the other side.
A lot of scientists that
are beginning to see this
see it as a mirror universe.
Any real thing that's on this
side in the direct space we
live in that is not
100% its true self,
it hasn't totally
actualized yet,
it still has a potential
self, a missing part
that's still on the other side.
Those two components
are discrete,
but intention has the ability
to reach across that veil
and consider these actually
potential components
and bring them together.
And as soon as it
brings them together,
a little string shows up
over here on this side.
You have these automata as
the most primary basic level
of reality that we've added
together by intention.
They become strings, which
become primary particles, which
become atoms, which
become molecules,
and molecules come
together and make up cells.
The cells come together
and make up tissues.
The tissues make up organs.
The organs make up
superorganisms, like humans,
stars, star systems,
and galaxies,
and that sort of thing.
>> We know our intent can change
the outcome of our physical
reality, thanks to the placebo
effect in medical treatments
and to the famous double slit
experiment first performed
by Thomas Young in 1801.
This experiment demonstrates
that a particle, which
should travel in
a straight line,
according to the
laws of physics,
creates, instead, a
diffraction pattern.
>> Now, that's called
the observer paradox.
Why is it that when
an observer looks,
you get particle distribution,
two lumps of particles
behind a slit, and when
the observer doesn't look,
you get a diffraction pattern?
The particle doesn't
exist, you see,
until some player
gets that information
of the particle being
there in their data stream.
Once that's done, it
has to stay there.
It has to be a
particle from then on,
so it acts like a particle.
That's what brings
it into this reality.
It becomes a part of
the physical world.
Then, anybody else that looks
there will see that same thing.
>> It is actually very
empowering to think that we
live in a physical world
that hasn't happened yet.
It is your observation.
In other words, it is you.
It is your consciousness
that is reaching
into the world of probability
and bringing it into existence.
Our voice contains the patterns
of our thoughts and emotions,
while our brain is
registering and storing
these patterns in the
form of EEG waves.
We can, in fact,
replay these EEG waves
and translate them back
into an actual sound.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Another contribution
to this concept
comes from audio engineer,
Colin Harrington, who
claims to be able
to see his thoughts,
his emotions, and his dreams
on a projected screen.
>> I've always been a
very vivid, lucid dreamer,
as long as I can remember--
about three, four years old.
And I would describe
my dreams to people,
and I was met with
a lot of skepticism.
So I felt compelled
to try to figure out
a way to show people or let
them see and hear my dreams.
When I got into computer
sound and composition,
a lot of my master's was
focused on various different EEG
projects and interactive
multimedia and things
like synesthesia and changing
color into sound and sound
into colors.
Color is a frequency.
Light is a frequency.
Brainwaves are a frequency.
All of the sound that
you hear is a frequency.
Those correlations
and blending those
with diverting them into
other sensory inputs
are making the internal external
and the intangible tangible.
There is a whole field called
cymatics that turns vibrations
into the patterns, and you
can see the wave interference
patterns that are very elaborate
and strikingly beautiful.
>> Using, sometimes, different
types of technologies like this
can help you retrain your brain.
You see the results of
how your mind works.
Naomi Grossman is one of the
most creative actors I know.
She applies various mind-body
techniques in her acting career
as well as in her real life.
She was fascinated
by the idea that she
could have a visual and
auditory representation of how
her mind operates.
>> So one-to-one
real-time response--
so as your mind is evolving
and changing based on your mood
and your alertness, it will
generate music in real time.
And I can run that into
pretty much any instrument
that I want.
So we'll be able to
hear your representation
of your feelings.
>> Oh, god, I'm scared.
[LAUGHING]
>> There's a little bit of
saline solution on this.
>> OK.
>> It's nothing strange.
It's used as a conductor.
>> Ooh, I like this look.
>> It's definitely
a little futuristic.
>> Yeah.
>> So this will be a little
bit better of an example,
if you want to stress yourself.
>> Go for the stress.
[FAST PIANO PLAYING]
>> And if you could think about
something stressful one more
time.
[FAST PIANO PLAYING]
So I think you can see
an incredible range.
>> Wow.
>> Being in the world of acting
and being able to turn it
on like that, it's
really impressive,
because I've run various
iterations of this software
on hundreds of people.
But I've never seen someone
be able to turn it on
and turn it off by going to
there, wherever there is.
So--
>> I mean, it's like when you're
playing make-believe, you know,
and--
>> You're a perfect
test subject.
>> --playing house, and I'm
the mom, and you're the-- mm,
go there.
>> I thought this was spot on.
I mean it was insanely accurate.
Could you show us a little
bit of the visualizer.
In other words, as
opposed to hearing,
is it possible to see the
thoughts and emotions?
>> Sure.
What I have this mapped to
is blue would be a more calm,
and a red would be a
more angry, and then
we're going to have purple
right here in the middle.
So we can see if you
can change the colors.
>> You want to give it a try.
>> OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Stress.
>> Go ahead, and
try to calm down,
and reach a state of peace.
I really love the one-to-one
real-time relationship here.
>> It's amazing.
>> So I go red, and
then did I go blue?
>> Oh, yeah.
>> Absolutely.
>> I've spent plenty of
time going red in my mind,
whereas going blue, you know, I
have less experience with that.
And it was fun.
I enjoy, like, going to Jamaica
and feeling the sun on my skin.
>> It can be a conscious
decision with training.
You obviously have
a certain aptitude
for turning yourself calm
and turning yourself angry
that most other people may
not have right off the bat.
But it's something
that you can learn.
Even if you don't have
that kind of focus,
you can train yourself.
Now, what we'd like to
do is train the computer
to recognize an image.
>> Let's try with
a positive image.
>> Let's try something
with a positive.
This is the image that
we're going to be using.
We can teach the computer how
you react to a certain image.
I included this blank
white slide in there
to be nothingness, unless you're
recalling a specific pattern.
So let's try to
recall that image.
Put yourself on stage.
And then think of nothing.
Put yourself back on that
stage, and feel the way
that you felt when
you were there.
>> It's crazy.
>> It reminds me of that
expression, when it rains,
it pours.
It's no wonder that when
things are going well,
they go really, really
well, or vice versa.
Like, I-- those times when I
booked two national commercials
and got a boyfriend
all in one week,
it's like, well, yeah, I'm
putting something out there.
I'm fixating on the positive.
And it just goes to show
we need to flood our brains
with positive images.
That was so interesting.
You know, I mean, we
have so much power.
We have the power to
affect change in our lives,
so why not choose the positive,
since we have a choice?
>> Yeah.
Did this help you kind of
see how your mind can go
either way in a split second?
>> Yes.
>> And how your
brain is registering?
>> It's like, when in doubt.
If you get the choice, which,
of course, we have the choice,
go to Jamaica.
>> Our thoughts and emotions
can be perceived as sound
and images.
Sound can be turned
into an image,
as in the biological
sonar that is
used by several kinds
of animals, whereby
the animal emits a
sound that resonates
and echoes back a visual
description of the environment
that they're in.
In plant life,
studies have shown
that trees emit a
frequency, and this
is how trees can
communicate with other trees
about incoming predators
or weather patterns.
How could there be oneness
with animal life, plant life,
and the Earth itself without
a mechanism that allows
you to maintain this oneness?
If plants and animals
can communicate
through seemingly
invisible frequencies,
is it possible that humans
could also be doing the same?
We are surrounded by
this invisible pool
of energies and waves.
We know electromagnetic
waves, sound waves exist,
but we don't see them.
So the idea is, how
much of these waves
can we actually detect
on this side of the veil?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Ex-FBI agent, Ben Hansen,
has been investigating
and documenting paranormal
anomalies around the world
using multiple technologies.
He volunteered to demonstrate
these technologies to us,
so I decided to
bring a friend along.
Corey Feldman needs
no introduction.
Child actor, filmmaker,
and musician,
Corey's fascinated by
supernatural phenomena
and wanted to join us for
some interesting experiments.
>> When I was working
for the Bureau,
they have looked into phenomena,
such as UFOs and cattle
mutilations.
The devices that
I use, conducting
kind of our own experiments
into something that's called
ITC research.
I don't know if you've
heard of that before.
>> Mm-mm.
>> So it's instrumental
transcommunication.
So in about the '70s,
people started experimenting
and finding out you
could take all sorts
of electronic
devices, and voices
were showing up on the tapes.
>> Eh.
A little skeptical, but.
>> You know, and so was I--
completely skeptical,
because the prime theory
of what we call capturing
an EVP, Electronic Voice
Phenomena, is that we're dealing
with electromagnetic waves.
And what they found was that you
can take a device such as this,
which is an induction coil.
This experiment
we're going to do
is speak into the
red tape recorder.
Then what we're going to do is
transmit through this induction
coil to the blue tape recorder.
The blue is the receiver.
The red is the transmitter.
Is we're going to
take your voice,
and we'll have you make
a message on the red tape
recorder.
>> OK.
>> So the first thing
I want you to do--
if you could take the battery
out of the blue recorder
for me.
>> Sure.
And there's a blue
battery in it, too.
Isn't that convenient?
OK.
Right there.
>> So for quality control,
we'll take the blue recorder,
and we'll just set it
over here out of the way.
>> OK.
Now the red recorder, I would
like you to leave a message.
>> Captain's log, stardate 2018.
This is Captain Corey of
the USS Red Recorder leaving
a message that may be
detected in other universes
or dimensions.
>> Great.
Awesome.
>> I love that.
>> So I can see it's there.
You left a 20-second message.
>> Perfect.
>> OK, so it's here.
But just to make sure,
what we're going to do
is we're going to take
what we call an EMF meter,
electromagnetic field meter.
And as we play this back, we
see the needle fluctuating.
The EMF meter is picking
up electromagnetic field
from this device.
>> Got it.
>> His voice is on the recorder,
but what is being picked up
here is not the sound.
It's being picked up by
an induction coil, which
creates a magnetic field.
>> It's just basically magnetic
energy that's traveling.
>> Magnetic energy, exactly.
So we'll put the meter
aside, and now we
have a transmitting coil, which
is broadcasting a message.
And if you can now put the
battery back into the recorder,
OK, so we've shown it was not
recording at the same time
this was.
So there's no way
it picked up on it.
I'm now going to touch
these two coils together.
You see they're
close, because they've
got to be close to
each other fields,
but they're not touching.
>> Yeah.
>> Powered on.
>> OK.
>> Excellent.
So now we have our blue
recorder, which we'll
call it the receiving recorder.
Just get a simple
little speaker here so
that we can hear it better.
We're going to plug into it.
Fingers crossed-- let's
see if your message is now
on the captured recorder.
>> Captain's log, stardate 2018.
This is Captain Corey of
the USS Red Recorder leaving
a message that may be
detected in other universes
or dimensions.
>> Well, there you go.
>> That's cool.
>> Do you see how clear it was?
>> Very clear.
>> That was not
done by radio waves.
It was not done acoustically.
We've transferred it seemingly
through some magical energy,
but science knows as an
electromagnetic field.
So the theory behind this
is it's energy-based.
It has to be.
>> OK.
>> All we have here is a piece
of metal with wire wound around
inside of it.
What do you think the
biggest induction coil--
what's the grand scale?
What do we have that would
be the biggest induction
coil that surrounds us all?
>> The Earth.
If it's that, or if it's some
other energy we don't quite
understand, we're
all connected to it.
>> You just demonstrated how
sound waves can be transferred
from one point to another
without physical contact.
>> I can think of
somebody across the world,
and just by thinking
about them--
>> They'll call you.
>> They call you.
>> Yeah, I do it all the time.
The reality is we're all
plugged in to the same source.
>> I completely agree.
We can take this whole concept
of imprinting your residual
onto a physical object
visually in a special camera
that I have.
So if I could have you both
just have a seat right there.
OK.
>> Just relax.
I'm going to come over here, and
I have a specialty camera here.
The average human puts out about
the same amount of heat energy
as 100-watt light bulb.
So that's what you're
doing right now,
both of you just sitting there.
Energy is, as we know,
a lot of thermodynamics
that could be transferred
from one thing to another.
And heat being an energy,
a wave in a sense, you
guys are emanating that now, OK?
And you're interacting
with everything
you come in contact with.
So just by sitting
there in those chairs,
you're transferring energy.
>> Sometimes your masseuse,
they'll, like, do that,
and then they'll just kind
of put their hands above you.
They're not touching
you, but you
can feel the heat radiating
through your body.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> You might even feel that
when you meet certain people,
kind of an energy transfer.
>> OK.
>> So if I could have you both
stand up and just go hang out
there on that
couch for a second.
>> OK.
>> All right, and I'll just
record just so we have enough
here.
So before you guys sat down,
I took a video of those
chairs you're sitting in with
a thermal camera, which sees
into the infrared spectrum.
So it senses heat, not much
of a visible light at all.
And you'll see here the
chairs are primarily blue.
Above you, we have
some red heat,
which is actually a heater, a
vent up there that's heating up
the books on the top shelf.
>> Oh, I see it.
Yep, OK.
>> OK.
So when you sat down, there
you are in full color.
The darker areas represent
the colder spots,
so you can see your pants and
the cuffs that are not actually
touching your pants or darker.
>> Shoes are darker.
>> And your faces
are the brightest,
because they're the
hottest in frame.
So what I wanted to
show you was the point
that you guys get up here, so
you get up out of your chairs.
>> And bam, look at that.
That is an imprint.
>> Yes.
>> That's some serious heat.
Look at that.
Oh, wow.
Look at mine-- really
bright where my face was.
>> You can see where your hand
was on the left hand, and you,
I think, had an elbow or
something like you were just
sitting there.
>> Yeah, but it's really from--
it seems like that's--
>> Torso.
>> Yeah, it's right
where my heart would be.
>> Yeah, the chest seems
to be the brightest.
>> It's not just the
heat that we feel,
but it's also an
energy we can see.
>> We affect everything in the
material world with our energy.
So if we have good energy, and
we're putting good energy out
to the world, then we're going
to get good responses back.
But if we're putting out
negative energy all the time,
then you're going to
have negative come in
and infect your life
that way, until you make
a conscious effort to stop.
And once you go, I'm going to
believe everything is good,
everything is fine, it's all
going to work itself out,
and then all of a sudden, things
start to reverse themselves.
>> I will never tell somebody
with 100% certainty what I
captured on this tape recorder,
on this video is a ghost,
an alien.
I don't know that.
>> I don't believe
in ghosts, mind you.
I never did.
But there have been
things that have happened,
where it makes you question it.
>> All we know is
it's unexplained,
and it's something that we can't
see, but it's being perceived.
And somehow, technology
is capturing it.
>> Obviously, I believe that
there is much beyond this
reality.
I mean, I have many
variations on that,
so if we're talking
about the spiritual realm
or if we're talking about
the inner dimensional realm,
or there's a lot of different
kind of understandings
of what that means.
>> We probably occupy the same
physical space, so if we do,
but we don't see each
other all the time,
what would you call that?
And the dimension is kind of the
only word that comes to mind.
So multiple dimensions-- yes,
I think it's very possible.
>> The fact that people
said, oh, well, this is god,
I believe is just a limited
capability of understanding
at that time.
What they saw in
miracles and things that
happened before them were
unexplainable in any other way
other than saying, that's god.
>> Outside of the physical, I
believe that there is an energy
out there.
>> I do believe there's
a bigger force at play.
>> Something's happening
that's bigger than us.
>> Beyond the body, once we
leave our meat puppet behind,
we go back to our
actual true existence.
>> At times, I get frustrated
that I can't see it.
Even though I have, like, these
beady Canadian close set eyes
that I would hope that
are like laser beams
to be able to see these things,
I can't, and I-- it really
frustrates me.
>> It's like you pull the
goggles off the virtual
reality, and you're home again.
>> And when you're brought back,
you maybe choose what you want
to be.
>> Our reality, in essence,
could be different to different
people, although I do
think there is one truth.
The problem is that
science has not
caught up to be able to explain
the rules by which it operates.
[MUSIC PLAYING]